https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A5XQTcdVWgU
[About](https://www.youtube.com/about/)[Press](https://www.youtube.com/about/press/)[Copyright](https://www.youtube.com/about/copyright/)[Contact us](/t/contact_us/)[Creators](https://www.youtube.com/creators/)[Advertise](https://www.youtube.com/ads/)[Developers](https://developers.google.com/youtube)[Terms](/t/terms)[Privacy](/t/privacy)[Policy & Safety](https://www.youtube.com/about/policies/)[How YouTube works](https://www.youtube.com/howyoutubeworks?utm_campaign=ytgen&utm_source=ythp&utm_medium=LeftNav&utm_content=txt&u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.youtube.com%2Fhowyoutubeworks%3Futm_source%3Dythp%26utm_medium%3DLeftNav%26utm_campaign%3Dytgen)[Test new features](/new)[NFL Sunday Ticket](https://tv.youtube.com/learn/nflsundayticket)
© 2026 Google LLC

## Transcript

[0:00] Hey, how's it going? Cole from Agentyc here, and in this video, I'm going to be walking through how to set up your own AI Chief of Staff. Now, for a lot of people that I talk to, this is the first agent that they'll set up in Cloud Co-work. So, get ready to learn from the start how to actually begin thinking about agents, developing them in Cloud Co-work, and setting them so that they're able to handle a lot of your workload without you even needing to spend the time working on it after things are set up. So, here we are. This is actually a finished setup. It lives in Cloud Projects. It has information on my business, a standing map of everything that I'm working on, um different contacts in Cloud MD. I'm going to need to blur out some of these for client confidentiality, but it also has scheduled tasks like a brief that comes to me every day, a review of the entire week of things that I'm working on, and then a primer to help me improve my AI use.

[0:55] So, how did we get here? What exactly is an AI Chief of Staff, and what is this going to be able to do for you? Well, the good news is that this is actually a downloadable plugin, so this is something that I've developed over the last couple weeks, basically looking at the workflow that I do and that my clients do, and figuring out what sort of agent that could operate as a Chief of Staff would be best for most business owners or employees just trying to stay on top of their work. So, this surfaces emails that are relevant and important. It can look at your calendar and see where you're spending your time, and then it can also audit how you're using AI and give you suggestions on skills to build or other plugins to use to make your process a lot more efficient. So, you can get into the whole details here.

[1:43] This is what you're going to get. It's going to look over your business. And really the thing that differentiates mediocre AI from good AI is the context that it has about you. It needs to know your business, it needs to know your role, it needs to know your objectives, um who you're talking to on a daily basis. All that information's really hard to get, but this plugin solves that problem by having it go through a read-only pass of all of your connected tools like email, calendar, uh any docs, uh the public web presence of your business, and it gives you a full overview. So, uh this is different from working with a chatbot where you kind of tell it something and it goes back and forth. This can actually execute tasks on your behalf. So, it can draft up emails for you, it can put together memos, and it also knows your branding and style and everything about you. And it'll get better the more that you use it. So, um this is something that works for businesses, but I know some data policies are a little bit stricter. So, if you want to try this out, but you don't have a company account that you can use it for, you can also plug it into your own data.

[2:49] Now, the important thing is that when you're installing something in a GitHub repo or really any source, you want to make sure that it's safe. So, I want to give you a pro tip. So, here we are in Claude. Let's say I want to download this.

[3:12] Okay, so you're going to run this kind of prompt. Uh there's a more detailed prompt that I can give you for this, but right now this will serve its purpose. Uh while this is running, I also want to go through some of the settings that are important to know in Claude Code. The first most important one is privacy. So, you're going to see this help improve our AI models. If you don't want it training on your data, and I think in nine out of 10 cases it's probably better that it doesn't, um you want this to be turned off. Location metadata also should be turned off. You just generally don't want to be giving these model providers more information than you need to be. On top of that, another important one to check out is the usage plans.

[3:49] Right now I'm on pro on this account. Um I also have a different account with Max and I have Codex as well. So, I'm trying to split it up and try to find the most economical way to use tokens. Right now, this is something that you should check in with. If you do find yourself going over session limits, you probably want to switch to a model like Sonnet. And most of the time, if it's not code related, Sonnet will do the trick. Then, you're also going to want to look into Co-work. If you use your phone and your laptop, require trusted devices is a important thing to note, but it will have you log in almost every time on your phone that you try to do something, which is a bit annoying. I turned it off because, um, it's still gated. You can disconnect your device. It just adds a lot of time if you make it required trusted devices.

[4:31] Additionally, you probably want to be using trusted Co-work folders so it doesn't look through your entire device. Um, right now, this is just a set up account, so it's fine, but I have this configured on my actual account. Uh, run new tasks on the cloud, you're going to want this on, otherwise a lot of the scheduled runs aren't going to work. Cloud in Chrome is really great, especially for extracting data for websites that have, uh, captchas and other information that make it so that crawlers don't work. You're going to want to have this on, especially if you're inputting your LinkedIn profile. And then, there's, um, some other things that you're going to want. If you're keeping this alive on your local device, you're going to want to do keep computer awake, but a drawback of this is that, uh, if you're using a laptop or if your computer is not connected to a power source consistently, it'll burn more power. So, I'd say use caution if you don't have your device always plugged in. Um, this is a desktop, so I do. I keep it awake, but, um, I would decide whether you would need it awake or not.

[5:28] Now, most of the scheduled tasks that you're going to be setting up run in the cloud, which is great, cuz then you don't need your computer awake. But, sometimes if you are trying to do things on your device and all of the file information is only on your computer, you're going to need this switched on to make it actually work. And then, here are the really interesting things. There's skills, connectors, plugins, and, uh, memories. what you're going to be using is a plugin like this. I'm actually going to delete this one and reinstall it just so you know how to work it from scratch. Uh so, let's remove this plugin. This is the one that I'll have you be installing.

[6:01] So, right now I have no plugins and this is the check. So, it ran commands. You can kind of see what exactly it's looking at in this, but at the end of it, it says that it's safe. It clones the repo. It scans for hard-coded secrets, anything that would give away your environmental keys, anything that could compromise access to your computer. This scans through and it says if everything's safe. So, if you ever download any Claude skill, any sort of information from a repository and you download it onto your computer, you're always going to want to make sure that this check is set up. And there's also plugins and cybersecurity skills that Claude has for this, but right now it kind of uses its own skills and it's pretty effective in that. So, now that we know it's safe, I'm going to just download the zip file.

[6:47] Uh I already have a download, but let's just save this right now. Cool. And now it is saved. Let's walk you through setting up the plugin. So, you're going to go to settings, you're going to go to plugins, and then you're going to add. Now, there's two ways to add it. Um one is through marketplace, so it connects straight to GitHub. And if I make changes, you're going to be able to see the changes directly within your local one. I think that that works, but for now, if you're trying to use a stable version, you should just download it and install it like this. But now we have the plugin.

[7:21] Here are the skills and what it's going to do. Essentially, like I said, you build an AI chief of staff. It researches your business, connects your tools. So, this is all getting the context that it needs to actually operate. A lot of these skills don't capture context for you, so it's a pain when I see a lot of people trying to start using AI. It doesn't know anything about the business. It doesn't know even about their time zone or any of that information, so it gets things wrong often. This will get things wrong. Um that's kind of inevitable when it's parsing through a lot of data, but the great thing is that this plugin can actually learn and create a context file on you, so it's not going to be getting the same things wrong again and again.

[7:57] You can think of it sort of like an intern that you train up. It's not going to know everything at first, but um as long as you keep working with them, they're going to improve. This is also read-only by default. It prepares the work and you approve and act. So, it can draft messages to people, but it's not going to actually send anything or take any permanent actions on your behalf. It just queues things up and then you can click through a link and send. So, now the way that you're going to set this up is you would I did have this set up as AI Chief of Staff right now. It's archived, so the current system's not going to be using that in its context.

[8:31] So, we're starting on a fresh slate right now. Let's call it

[8:38] Let's call it Agentic Chief of Staff. And you're going to want to create it in a project because only within a project will it be able to create its own documents for context memory. Now, there's two ways that this can operate in the cloud and on your computer. On your computer, it's going to actually be creating MD files on your local device. So, say that you're logged in on another device, you're not going to be able to access any of the information. So, you would generally want to keep it in the cloud, and then you're going to be able to access this on your phone, on your desktop, wherever you log in, which is a lot more robust. However, if you do have confidential data, if you're working with information that you absolutely don't want out and you want to keep on your local device, that's the safest path.

[9:22] So, I'm going to walk through the setup and make it really easy for you that there's just a skill which is a sequence of tools that it can call and run. And that's what sets it up. So, first you're going to want to start in a new project like I said and run setup. It's going to be working on it. It's going to ask you a couple questions and then um the agents are going to go out on the internet and learn more about you and come back. Another thing that's important to know is connectors. So, right now I have my Gmail and my Google Calendar connector. I also have Pro Muse, which basically means you install a plugin in your browser. So, um this is Cloud in Chrome and it's able to kind of search Chrome.

[10:04] Uh this this will come in handy a little later, so I'll talk about that in a second. But, as you can see right now it is looking through the tasks that it's going to do and then it's going to be taking on those tasks and handling things. So, welcome to your chief of staff. It's an agent that lives in this project. It'll learn how you work. It keeps a written record of your preferences and essentially it's going to understand your business and your role in it and then help you along figure out what things you don't want to fall through the cracks, um help you to draft your messages. You can even put together a tone and style guide so that it sounds and works exactly like you would.

[10:41] So, setting it up takes under 10 minutes. These are the steps. It's going to read about your business. It's going to um show what it worked out. We can correct it. We'll build a picture where everything stands and then we can put together a brief and set up some things on a schedule so that you'll be able to work with this over time and actually improve it. Here we go. It's worth having a name so you can call it the chief of staff. You can call it Ida, that's another fun name. I called my last one Bartholomew. Maybe let's call this one Toby. So, now um my AI agent Toby is going off and researching all about what I do. All right. So, it's asking me what my website and my name is. So, website is agentic.com and my name is Coltrane Kubick.

[11:23] Great. So, now it's running a skill. Um anytime that you see it working and it makes these pop-ups, you can actually click in and see what it's doing. So, this is um the prompt that it's using, it's searching the web. All of this is traceable. Um there's a little pop-up on the side. This is actually the tasks that the agent gives itself. One thing that's really important to know about how agents work versus chatbots is that a big difference is that agents work in things that you would call loops, and they have access to tools. And essentially, a chatbot can take what you say and then predict the next characters that would make sense, therefore kind of giving the perception of intelligence, and it can carry a conversation. The thing about agents is that they can actually execute tasks for you. They can use tools, they can make a list of plans, and then it can go back and forth and use the regular LLM chatbot functionality to get things done. So, right now it's using connectors. You're not going to have this on a fresh install of Claude, but um all you need to do is go to browse connectors and type in what you need. They're adding to this all the time. So, it's pretty awesome. If you need to see your Slack messages, if you keep all your invoice proposals in Google Drive, uh if you're working from Notion, you know, HubSpot, there's a ton of connectors that are really useful, and all of them can be connected within here. Some tools don't have connectors, which is why I have this tool called Composure. It's essentially an MCP, so it has connectors to these tools, but from the Composure side, you can actually choose what actions are allowed versus what are prohibited. If you look at these connectors, you have a certain set of tools that you can use, you can create events, delete things, but you don't really have control over what actually the agent can do. So, if you really want specific control, and you're like, "I don't want the agent to delete any emails ever." Um if you were to use an MCP server like Composure, you could blacklist that command so that it actually can't um do that task. Right now, I have it on like warning, don't do any destructive actions, but there's a lot more um nuance that you can do with an MCP like Incapsula.

[13:32] Anyway, now that you know how to set it up, this is the next question. So, before we go further, here's your information. It says you already have this running. Let's see. Let's replace it with this one. So, you're not going to have that pop up. It's just because it noticed that we already have scheduled tasks. I guess I'll just delete these for now for the sake of this um demo.

[14:01] Great. Okay. So, we have the scheduled task deleted. It's working. It shows the different tasks that it's working on. You can ask questions or make changes too if you want to adjust the plan. I don't currently want to adjust the plan. I think it's going to be working pretty well. And it is about a 10-minute process, so it'll take some time. Uh during that, I think that a good use of time is to go through some of the CloudFlare work settings and show what is most useful. Um these are just the general settings that you would want. Um if you want notifications when things are done, that could be useful. I would pop up on screen. A lot of times I have multiple chat windows going on here, working on multiple projects. I'm also in Cloud Code some of the time, so getting those notifications are helpful.

[14:44] I have that set up on my main account. Um then moving into the account, it shows active sessions. So, if you see anything that you don't recognize, you should always just be going back in here and um deleting them. Usually, it's not an issue. Um I think this is a VPN. I'm not in Michigan. Uh as far as privacy, I mentioned you don't want to have either of those checked. Um billing, this is just the paid plan. Um usage credits, if you do turn this on, sometimes on a new account, they give you some free usage credits.

[15:18] I wouldn't always bet on it, but this is a possibility. Let's not install that now. Um usage credits actually cost a little bit more than your typical units. So, I wouldn't suggest using the usage credits in that way, but um that does exist. Uh let me just switch this off. Uh as far as capabilities, this loads the different tools. Um it has connectors. I usually just recommend having most of these on. Artifacts are great. Those are longer documents, um HTML dashboards, really anything that you might want to create once and then use as a template on a consistent basis.

[15:56] Uh so, I guess a good example would be a dashboard. Maybe you could have a artifact that's a dashboard of all of the emails that you get. Um it shows the ones that you need to reply to and you can just click in and it'll open up the window and you can reply in thread. I won't get too into it because Claude code's pretty advanced. If you're working in GitHub, like how I put together the plugin, um that's a good instance. If you're building a website, if you're trying to work on building an app, if you're trying to do things a little bit more complicated with your data, maybe you're doing a migration, Claude code is great. But for most tasks, especially most office knowledge work, Cowork is, I think, the superior option just because it's a little bit of a cleaner interface. Um and then the token usage is a lot more easy to keep in check. Pass through here. Claude in Chrome is where it can open the browser if you have the plugin installed and actually look around on the site. So, this is great for uh platform like LinkedIn, for instance, where you can't have web scraping.

[16:52] Okay, so what it's doing is it's reading through my information. It set up the scheduled tasks. It looked into my emails and my calendar, and now it's writing the content to Claude MD, which is basically like its central memory source for it. Um let's see. How do you describe what I do? Um say all. What am I trying to do this year? I think fewer deeper clients would be good.

[17:25] So, it sees what I do. Um, it looked at my website. It looked at different case studies that I have, some media appearances. It kind of shows what Ajetnic is about based on the web search. These are the projects that we have. So, if you would like to be working on a project here, you can pin it. Right now, it's pinned, so if you want to work on like a different one, you can unpin and then the projects aren't there. A lot of times it's good to just pin the things that you're working on. For the repository security scan, like this is just an example of a chat. If I wanted to go back to it, you can click and drag any of these to pin them. And if you don't, you can just drop them and then they pop back to where they were. You can also sort, so if you have archived tasks, you can look at those. The thing about archived tasks is if you are trying to reference previous chats, um, in Cloud Co-working tasks, if it's archived, even within the project, you're not going to be able to see that.

[18:26] So, you shouldn't archive things willy-nilly unless you don't want any future conversations to reference it naturally. You can group by date, type, status, you know, you name it. I think it's a good practice to just look through the sorting things because it is easy to let things get lost here. So, by keeping your main tasks in projects, usually a project in my mind is something that will take at least a month to work on and it needs to capture a collection of knowledge. I wish there could be projects and subprojects, but I don't think that's too big of a capability yet. It's a lot more effective if you have it nested in your desktop folder, like projects and subprojects, but right now it's just in the cloud as it is set up right now.

[19:06] So, if you are trying to pin a project, uh, what you're going to want to do is you will open this up, go to here, and then you click pin, and then you can have the project pinned, so you can always see it. All right, so it still looks like it's running. It has information on what I'm working on. Now, it reads everything and tells me where I actually stand. It's the long pass. And it's going to be looking through my email threads. It's going to be searching my calendar. The thing is with this first pass, because we're trying to make the setup in 10 minutes, it's not going to go fully in depth into your previous 6 to 12 months of messages or into your calendar, but it is going to give us enough to get a pretty solid picture of what's happening now. Now, I'm going to censor this. Um but essentially, this is what I have.

[20:00] It's the things that are circling, things that are owed to me, things that are quiet, um things that I'm working on this week, according to the calendar. If you check in Cloud MD, you can often click into these and see what exactly it saves. So, I recommend always just looking at these. These are going to be running documents. If you go into the project, you can see that this is always there. It's what this agent is going to use from now on to understand where we are at any standing time. So, I'll just say looks good. I have more clients, but nothing incorrect. It only looked over the past week or so. So, now it's trying to fetch my LinkedIn profile. It's not going to work because LinkedIn has scraping blockers, but this is the interesting part. You can schedule when you want the brief. What it should have done at this point was open up the LinkedIn in the browser, so I could just say open LinkedIn in browser. What time on Sunday should the review land? Let's say um morning.

[20:53] Um both go to this. Yes, that's the email. And it'll actually be sending these on a weekly basis. So, a lot of times I start my morning with a cup of coffee and looking over my daily brief. Um these are the calls that I have going on. This these are the projects in flight. These are the people that I need to give a response to. So now, from here it's creating the scheduled task for you. This is going to be the weekly brief as well as the morning email triage and primer. So now you can see that there's new scheduled tasks that pop up. Uh here's an example, so scheduled task, Toby's review. It runs in the Agentyc Chief of Staff project, which is why it's able to access these documents that keep it up to date. It's able to write things into the document so that it's aware of new things going on. Uh it's really useful. Uh one more optional, let's do Friday morning. This is a weekly primer, so it looks at your AI usage, it looks at the chats, and then it actually makes suggestions and gives you news and information based on how you're using it. So imagine you're working in an industry like real estate and there's something that's groundbreaking about AI tool applications or legislation that comes out and the agent can see that you're working on something similar, so what it does is it puts together the information and links to it in a nice primer that you can read through in the morning in 10 minutes, and then you'll have more industry context. So it's relevant and it also helps you to learn and use these tools better. Another thing is sometimes things won't work. Um this is just because maybe it looks at the wrong place, maybe it doesn't see your sent message and it says, "Oh, you missed a message to someone." Uh whenever this happens, you're actually able to troubleshoot and fix these themselves.

[22:28] All you need to do is say like, "This is a mistake. Can you outline what you did and make a plan to make it not happen again." Um when it does that, it's going to look through the plugin and look through its prompting and settings and then make surgical edits on what to change, and then at that point it's going to be fixed. So there we go. I think we're actually finished with the setup. That's the pipeline working. Um I'm going to get a brief every morning at 6:30 a.m. Eastern time. I get a review every Sunday, um and then I get a primer on Friday. So now one more thing happens on its own before the first brief, the agent's going to go back into the last several months of my mail and calendar properly.

[23:05] Right now, I did a quick pass, but this is going to do a deep full pass, build out a CRM basically with my relationships, clients, all of the projects in flight, and everything that I care about. So, then it's going to know a lot more about me now than this current first pass does. And then also when something's wrong, and it will be, just say here in a chat that it is wrong, and it's going to actually rewrite the knowledge base in the MD and make sure that things are correct. If you connect anything else later, just say that you've connected it. Maybe you keep your proposals in Google Drive. Maybe you're in HubSpot.

[23:38] Just say that, and it will begin to learn to parse through that information too for your daily brief. So, you can just say like I connected this, make sure that the morning task takes that into account, and then it will. So, what I have now is a working file that knows Agentic. I have all the context. I know the client that I'm actively working with. There There's a couple more, but I just made it for this snapshot so that it doesn't uncover everything that I'm working on right now. Also, important prompts to know. So, if you're trying to get a full picture of what you're working on outside of these, you can just ask where things stand. You can also ask this plugin what are some of the best use cases that I can do. A lot of times what I like to do is if I have a ton of emails in my inbox, I just ask it to triage. I say, "Pull up my most recent emails. I'm going to do a voice dictation and tell you what I want to draft as a reply to some of them." And then from there, I just say all of it into one thread. I'm like, "For this person, say this. For this, blah blah blah." And it actually sets it as a draft reply in all of the email threads, and I can just click it.

[24:41] If I need to make any edits, I do, and then I send it, and it's like normally a half-hour block of emails gets pushed down into 5 minutes because I'm just able to say what I think. It knows my tone and style, and then from there, I'm able to just have it translated from my mind basically into an email that's ready to send. One thing important if you are trying to do that is to put together a tone and style guideline. So even in Agentic Chief of Staff, you can say I want to put together voice rules. I'm uploading a lot of examples of emails that I've sent. This is how I want to sound for emails. This is how I want to sound for DMs and Slack messages and so on. And then it's going to actually be able to read through, figure out the kinds of wording that you like to use, how like friendly and direct you are, and it'll put together a voice tone. And then whenever you're saying draft an email or do something like that, it'll reference it and make it more like you.

[25:31] So that's really the power of these AI agents. Once you teach it skills, and I'm using the term skills as they use it, which is basically context around a process and then the process itself that it needs to do to get to an output. If you can teach it that, it can actually deploy those skills in its own automated actions in these tasks that we have scheduled. And it'll make the outputs a lot better. So this is like I said before, it's like an intern that you're training, and it'll get better with time. Now we have that, and the next question is like what can you do, right?

[26:05] It'll be checking in on me every day. I can respond to the primer. It should be a useful look at the day. It'll tell me my whole calendar, everything that I care about. So this is all pretty cool, and you're going to start seeing the value really quickly. These will pop up in both your phone and your computer just because it is a scheduled task. When a task is ready, it'll turn blue like that. So you can always just click in, and if it looks good, you don't need to respond, it's going to keep on running. But if it doesn't look good, you just respond to it, and it'll handle that. So I'm not going to run it now just because it does take a while to run, and there is information that I don't really want to put in [clears throat] this webinar as a recording, but it is a pretty useful thing in in the actual live webinar I'll be getting into a lot more detail on what it's able to surface. So I hope this was helpful. I think that these are all of the components of a solid chief of staff.

[26:56] It's learning your work and your process. It's learning your style. It's understanding the commitments that you have within your business, and it's helping you to take action on that. And then it's also, on the other side, giving you education on how to begin using these tools more effectively. Because I know I dug into a lot of the different aspects of Claude CoWork, but I didn't talk about Claude Code. There's not really that much information that I have on your business to give you specific suggestions. So, this agent can kind of pick up the baton that we started here, and continue helping you even when I'm like long away doing something else. So, I hope that's helpful. I think that this is a really great way to get started with your AI use. You can talk to it like a friend and just ask it like, "What What is it that I don't know I don't know? What should I learn?"

[27:43] If you press this button, you're able to press and hold to record. There's also a tool called WhisperFlow, which is really great for dictation because it takes what you said. A lot of times, the audio is choppy and it doesn't really know, so it gets words wrong. But WhisperFlow actually passes it through an LLM that doesn't track your data, and it puts it in a nice structured way for the model. Because a lot of time, it's like garbage in, garbage out. You want to be as clear and coherent as possible when you're making these prompts so that it's able to take action more effectively. But that's all for this video. If you are looking for more information on the plugin best use cases, you can read through the description here. I would recommend, if you do have time, just looking at the different skills and kind of seeing how these MDs are laid out.

[28:29] This is how almost all agents operate now from a list of MDs, which basically walk through what the tool does, what the different steps are. So, this all will map back to what I'm saying, but I also help businesses to begin implementing AI and to begin understanding these tools and how they'll actually fit into workflow to drive revenue. And that's what I do through Aigentic. So, if you are interested and you don't really have 100 hours to spend learning this, feel free to send me a message. It's cooltrain@aigentic.com. I'd be happy to chat and figure out where exactly AI can fit into your workflow the best. Uh we help small businesses to build AI tools, processes, automations. We do trainings. And really, it's just kind of a bespoke partner that sits with you, understands the AI side, understands the developments that are happening, and kind of guides you through the highest ROI low-hanging fruit that you can actually begin using in your business to get efficiency with AI. Cuz the way that I think of it, it's like a seed, right?

[29:25] You plant it, and the more that AI knows about your business and your processes, the better it will get as the technology improves and as your employees learn how to use it better, it's going to be um an exponential gain over time. So, you're going to want to start planting that seed early. Anyway, thanks so much for watching. I know this was a bit of a long video with the setup, but hopefully you can just follow all of the steps that I walked through right there, and you're going to be able to have your own Aigentic Chief of Staff that's able to help you every single day and actually incorporate AI into your workflow. All right, that's all for this video. Thanks for watching.

[29:58] Bye.